Minikube Multi-Node Troubleshooting Report
Date: April 27, 2026
Subject: Resolution of "NotReady" Status in Multi-Node Minikube Cluster
Executive Summary
The Minikube cluster was successfully configured with one control-plane and two worker nodes (m02 and m03). Initially, the worker nodes were stuck in a NotReady state, preventing pod scheduling. The issue was identified as a missing Container Network Interface (CNI) configuration. The problem was resolved by manually deploying the Flannel CNI, which initialized the network fabric across all nodes.
1. Problem Identification
Upon installation and startup of the multi-node cluster, the following node status was observed:
[venkat@lin-test ~]$ kubectl get nodes
NAME           STATUS     ROLES           AGE   VERSION
minikube       Ready      control-plane   23h   v1.35.1
minikube-m02   NotReady   <none>          23h   v1.35.1
minikube-m03   NotReady   <none>          23h   v1.35.1


User pods, such as nginx-pod1, remained in a Pending state because the scheduler could not find a healthy (Ready) node to host them.
2. Root Cause Analysis
By SSHing into the worker node (minikube-m02) and inspecting the kubelet logs, the specific error was identified:
"Container runtime network not ready" networkReady="NetworkReady=false reason:NetworkPluginNotReady message:docker: network plugin is not ready: cni config uninitialized"


Explanation: The Kubelet service on the worker nodes was running, but it could not initialize networking because no CNI plugin (like Kindnet or Flannel) had provided a configuration file in /etc/cni/net.d/. Without a CNI, the node cannot assign IP addresses to pods, and therefore remains NotReady.
3. Step-by-Step Resolution
Step
Command
Description & Usage
 
1. Internal Diagnostic
minikube ssh -n minikube-m02
Logs into the worker node's shell to inspect local services and files.
2. Service Check
sudo systemctl status kubelet
Verifies if the Kubelet (the node agent) is running and checks its error logs.
3. CNI Verification
kubectl get pods -n kube-system
Used to check if networking pods are running. In this case, they were missing.
4. Manual CNI Deployment
kubectl apply -f [URL]
Deploys the Flannel CNI manifest to create the networking fabric.
5. Readiness Verification
kubectl get nodes
Confirms that the nodes have transitioned to Ready after CNI initialization.

4. Detailed Command Usage
The Recovery Command
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/flannel-io/flannel/releases/latest/download/kube-flannel.yml


kubectl apply: The standard way to create or update resources in a cluster.
-f [URL]: Points to the official Flannel YAML configuration.
Result: Creates a kube-flannel namespace and starts the kube-flannel-ds (DaemonSet).
Monitoring the Fix
kubectl get pods -n kube-flannel -w


-n kube-flannel: Targets the specific namespace where the network plugin lives.
-w (Watch): Keeps the terminal open and updates in real-time as pods transition to Running.
5. Conclusion
The cluster is now fully operational. The worker nodes minikube-m02 and minikube-m03 are Ready, and the networking fabric is established. Future multi-node setups should ensure that a CNI is explicitly selected during minikube start to avoid manual intervention.
